**Abstract**—

The “Employment Rate in Canada” dataset reflects monthly provincial employment measurements by the Labor Market Council of Canada from years 1976 to 2019. The employment rate is crucial to analyze because it reflects the local economy's health. Historically we have seen that when there is a higher percentage of people employed in the country, the local economy tends to perform better. This dataset also provides criteria about full-time and part-time employment for each sex within each province that we can cross-analyze. These variables could highlight local economic weaknesses in particular provinces or larger social issues that take place in different parts of Canada. This study could provide insight into the demographic shifts and technological changes over time reflecting Canada’s economic strength.

While there have been a variety of other studies related to Canada’s employment rate, few analyze the differences between provinces. Additionally, most lack the substantial historical data needed for significant findings related to employment trends over an extended period. The other studies tend to focus on short-term changes in employment or provincial differences that are not backed by years of monthly change, especially not over a range of forty years. We have seen an emergence of analyses post-pandemic to determine the lasting effects of Covid-19 on Canadian employment. In our study, we are looking at a longer-range analysis to focus on the evolution of the Canadian labor market through various economic downturns and significant globalization.

We conducted a thorough analysis of this data set by implementing a variety of statistical techniques. After implementing an informative exploratory analysis of our variables, we executed a time series analysis using a variety of models to determine the best-performing model that is suitable for forecasting changes in employment count over time. In addition to sectioning by province and clustering across sexes in the time series model, we will also seek to understand the relationship between the employment counts and the other variables in the dataset through different subsetted time series analyses. Our goal will be to define the best forecasting model for each of our main analyses: total employment counts in all of Canada, provincial models, sex-based models, and a model that highlights a more applicable topic of employment rates rather than counts.

Our study’s outcomes can provide strategic insights into the Canadian labor market. We aim to uncover interesting patterns relating to how demographics could be correlated to employment rates. These analyses should produce broader findings about trend and seasonality of employment rate in Canada and significant differences in patterns between provinces across sexes over time.

**Index Terms**— Employment trends, Canadian labor market, unemployment patterns, provincial disparities, employment rate predictors, sex-based differences, time-series analysis
